OpenShift - Redhat OpenShift is a enterprise container platform which is build on the top of Kubernetes.
Container - Containers are application building blocks, which is made into layers. - Base image / image layer1 / image layer2 / image layer3--- for example - Base Ubuntu / OS update layer / jawa runtime layer / application layer.

Openshift Features ---- 
CLI, Webconsole, API
Operator framework -- with operators we can install and manage kubernetes and its application and services  with a single step actions.
Full-stack automation -- you can deploy your application by single click or by providing source code repo URL. It will take care of the backend jobs including, building the conatiner image, keeping it on a container ragistery,
deploying containers, creating services etc.
Security - in-built rules
Built-in support for CI-CD.

Archetecture -----
Managed Openshift Clusters - Managed by RED-HAT and public cloud providers., Limited flexibility.
Self-Managed Clusters - Customer to design and deploy clusters, customer to manage and maintain clusters, flexible.


OpenShift Architecture -----
Control plane
Compute nodes
Infrastructer nodes
Sample reference architecture
in the backend we have same kubernetes for orchestration, pod, services etc. Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration system for automating computer application deployment,scalling and management.
Simple Architecture ---- We hav a bar metal, public cloud or a private cloud. on top of that we have core operating system. on top of that we have kubernetes then the cluster components(networking, router, monitoring, updates,
rejistry, Helm). then on top of that platform services, application services, and so on.

There are mainly two types of nodes in openshift=------------------
Control Plane node(master node) and compute nodes(worker nodes).--- end user and application will not be able to deploy their application on master node. master node will control woeker nodes.

There are 4 main components in master node -------
Kube API-Server
Kube-Control-Manager
Kube-Scheduler
ETCD.
ALSO THERE ARE SOME OPENSHIFT SERVICES ARE RUNNING -- openshift-apiserver, openshift-control-manager,openshift-OAuth etc.
Some of the services as systemd like, Kubelet which is used for comnunicating between node and controle plane.

Workernode - It also has similar pods and services running like cluster services,Kube-proxy, Kubelet,Cri-O etc.
We can also configure dedicated nodes for running infrastructer services like, Router, image registery, logging, monitoring etc.


Openshift Operators----------
Kubernetes operators
Custom resource definition(CRD)
Using operators in openshift

An operator is a method of packaging, deploying and managing a kubernetes native-application. All the required automation taken care by operators.

CRD - Kubernetes Resources.             CRD
Deployments                          Prometheous
Pods                                 Couchbase
Configmaps                           Splunk
Secrates                             Dynatrace
Services
Persistent Volumes



The difference between OpenShift and Kubernetes
For all that Kubernetes can do to orchestrate containers, users still need to integrate other components like networking, ingress, load balancing, storage, monitoring, logging, multi cluster management, continuous 
integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD), and more to accelerate the development and delivery of containerized applications—at scale. Red Hat OpenShift offers these components with Kubernetes at their core because—by
itself— Kubernetes is not enough

Kubernetes is a container orchestration software that helps users manage clustered groups of hosts running Linux containers.

While Kubernetes is the core kernel, in order to build, deploy, run, and manage containerized applications at scale at 1 location, or in a consistent way across a distributed environment such as on-prem datacenters, 
public clouds, edge, you need more than just Kubernetes.

Red Hat OpenShift provides a complete solution that includes a stable Kubernetes engine with robust security and many integrated capabilities required to operationalize a complete application platform. It comes in 
several editions including as a fully managed public cloud service or self-managed on infrastructure across datacenters, public clouds, and edge.














































































